Feature/ab#221 template documentation (#337)
starwit/lj-projectbuilder: docs/templates-howto.md

---
layout: page
title: Templates
has_children: true
permalink: /templates/
nav_order: 3
---

# How To for Templates

- [How load existing Templates](#how-to-load-existing-templates)
- [How to Create a Template](#how-to-create-an-own-template)

# How to load Existing Templates
## How to use the Default Template

In order to start with templating, you can use an already existing template. A default react template can be found [here](https://github.com/starwit/reacthook-spring-template).

> 1. If it is not already existing, you have to add it to the ProjectBuilder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If not already done, add your Template to ProjectBuilder.
```

>     * You can find the menu-item TEMPLATES in the header menu. It opens a list of all registered templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * You can find the menu-item `TEMPLATES` in the header menu. It opens a list of all registered templates.
```

### Add Template Files

In order to have domain-specific files, you additionally have to add them to `template-config.json` (as alsready displayed in the example above).

| property | type | madatory | description | example |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|fileName | String | yes | the name of the generated file. You can use [freemarker substitution mechanism](#freemarker-substitutions-for-templatepath) | `"fileName": "${entity.name}Entity.java",` |
|templatePath | String | yes | the location ot the template based on the directory `generator-templates` | `"templatePath": "persistence/Entity.ftl",` |
|targetPath | String | yes | the location of the target folder based on project directory | `"targetPath": "application/src/main/resources/"` |
| append | Boolean | no | defines, if the generated content should be appended to the existing file (yes) or added as new file (no). Default value is no. | `"append": no,` |
|category | String | no | You can use it for getting a better overview of yout template configurations | `"category": "ENTITY"` |

### Freemarker Substitutions for TemplatePath and TargetPath

The following substitutions are valid in template path:

> * `app` (or `project`<sup>depricated</sup>): all properties of the app defined in ProjectBuilder. See AppDto definition on https://pb.starwit.de/ljprojectbuilder/swagger-ui.html or definitions below

Reviewer: I would generally remove the deprecated parts of this documentation. The user should build templates with the not deprecated parts...

```suggestion
* `app` (or `project`<sup>deprecated</sup>): all properties of the app defined in ProjectBuilder. See AppDto definition on https://pb.starwit.de/ljprojectbuilder/swagger-ui.html or definitions below
```
